#Chapter 2:From the Duckett HTM: Text<br/>

* Structural markup: the elements that you can use to describe both headings and paragraphs.<br/>
* Semantic markup: which provides extra information; such as where emphasis is placed in a sentence.<br/>

***Structural markup***<br/>
**Headings**<br/>
HTML has six "levels" of headings:<br/>
`<h1>` is used for main headings ,element is the largest.<br/>
`<h6>` the element is the smallest.<br/>

**Paragraph**<br/>
`<p>` To create a paragraph, surround the words that make up the paragraph with an opening `<p>`<br/>
tag and closing`</p>` tag.<br/>


**Bold**<br/>
`<b>` By enclosing words in the tags `<b>` and `/b>` we can make characters appear bold.<br/>


**Italic**<br/>
`<i>` By enclosing words in the tags `<i>` and `</i>` we can make characters appear italic.<br/>

**Superscript**<br/>
`<sup>`  element is used to contain characters that should be superscript such as the suffixes of dates or mathematical concepts like raising a number to a power.<br/>

**Subscript**<br/>
 The`<sub>` element is used to contain characters that should be subscript. It is ommonly used with foot notes or chemical formulas.<br/>

**White Space**<br/>
When the browser comes across two or more spaces next to each other, it only displays one space. Similarly if it comes across a line
break, it treats that as a single space too.<br/>

**Line Breaks**<br/>
if you wanted to add a line break inside the middle of a paragraph you can use the line break tag `<br/>`.<br/>

**Horizontal Rules**<br/>
To create a break between themes — such as a change of topic in a book or a new scene in a play — you can add a
horizontal rule between sections using the `<hr/>` tag.<br/>

***Semantic markup***<br/>

**Strong**<br/>
The use of the `<strong>` element indicates that its content has strong importance.<br/>


**Emphasis**<br/>
The `<em>` element indicates emphasis that subtly changes the meaning of a sentence.<br/>

 **Quotations**<br/>
 --The `<blockquot>` element is used for longer quotes that take up an entire paragraph. Note how the `<p>` element is still
used inside the `<blockquote>` element.<br/>

--The `<q> `element is used for shorter quotes that sit within a paragraph.<br/>

**Abbreviations**<br/>
If you use an abbreviation or an acronym, then the `<abbr>` element can be used. A title attribute on the opening tag is
used to specify the full term.<br/>

**Citations**<br/>
When you are referencing a piece of work such as a book, film or research paper, the `<cite>` element can be used
to indicate where the citation is from.<br/>

**Definitions**<br/>
The `<dfn>` element is used to indicate the defining instance of a new term.<br/>

**Author Details**<br/>
The `<address>` element has quite a specific use: to contain contact details for the author of the page.<br/>

**Changes to Content**<br/>
The `<ins>` element can be used to show content that has been inserted into a document, while the `<del>` element can show text
that has been deleted from it.<br/>

The `<s>` element indicates something that is no longer accurate or relevant (but that should not be deleted).<br/>

## Cahpter-10<br/>
***continuing on the three elementary files to have a good looking, contentful, and interacing website; the second element is CSS syntax to style up the HTML document*** *this styling can be inline, embeded, or external*<br/>
### CSS selectors<br/>

|Selector name|function|symbol|
|-------------|--------|------|
|Universal Selector|targets all elements in the HTML file|*{}|
|Type Selector|targets the tag container|h1, h2 {}|
|Class Selector|targets the class attribute of specfic value|.note{}|
|id Selector|targets the element whose id attribute has a specific value|#intro{}|
|child Selector|targets element that are children of other elements|li>a{}|
|Descendant Selector|Targets any `<a>` elements that sit inside an element, even if there are other elements nested between them|p a{}|
|Adjacent Sibling Selector|targets the first element after any an assigned element|h1 + p {}|
|General Sibling Selector|targets both sibling elements|h1~p{}|

***If there are two or more rules that apply to the same element, it is important to understand which will take precedence.***<br/>
* If the two selectors are identical, the latter of the two will take precedence. Here you can see the second i selector takes precedence over the first.<br/>
* If one selector is more specific than the others, the more specific rule will take precedence over more general ones. <br/>



# Duckett JS
## Chapter-2
**Variable Declaration (assigning a value for a variable)**
*example* `var quantity = 40`
### var: to inform the interpreter that we're creating a variable
- quantity: is the varibale name
- 40: is the variable value
### Important: **variables can be used to store all data types; string, numerical, and boolean**


**Rules of Variables:**

- start with a letter or dollar sign or underscore
- it can contain all symbols, letters and nombers except dash or dots 
- don't use reserved words
- variables are case sensitive
- make it descriptive names 
- lowercase the first letter in the first word and upper case the one of the second word


**main concepts**

1. Variables are used to temporarily store pieces of information used in the script.
1. Arrays are special types of variables that store more than one piece of related information. e.g. `var colors; colors ['white', 'black', ' custom '];`

# Comparison and Logical operators

___
**==**
 ?
compares two valuse regardless of their data types to check if they are same 
 ___
 
 ___
 **!=**
 ?
check if the two values are NOT the same 
 ___
 
 ___
**===**
?
stricktly equal caheck if the two values are identical in their shape and value 
 ____
 **!==**
?
stricktly NOT equal caheck if the two values are NOT identical in their shape and value 

 ____
  **>, <, >=, <=**
?
 compare two integers, comparison ops result is either TRUE or FALSE
 ____

  **& , ||,  !**
?
logical op AND, OR, NOT respectively, allows us to compare results of multiple comparison operations
 ____

  **Loops**
?
For, While, do while ops sounds like the if statement in its structure and operation, if a cond satisfies true then go inside a loop of commands to execute them, till the cond get to be false then stop repeating the code
 ____